>> Steve Kinney: Let's talk
about that the terminal.
Now, there are a lot of things
you can do with the terminal,
most of which most of us don't care about.
So if there are a little, if you need to
use a particular profile, or you're like,
I need to use a given shell,
I got some notes for you, but
I'm not going to drag
everyone through that.
That could be an exercise for the reader.
Let's go with the most common quick hits,
shall we?
One is you don't just have
an integrated terminal.
You have more than one.
You have as many as you need.
So you can create another one,
right, with this plus sign.
If you hover over it, you will see
that there is a keyboard shortcut.
Are you gonna remember that right now?
You're not.
But eventually, again,
I don't need you to remember it.
If the other rule is open the command
palette, if you find yourself mousing over
something to click on it, then your
punishment, just not really punishment.
The practice is to hover over for
a first second, reflect on it,
take your mouse away from it.
In this case,
it is control shift back tick.
Control Shift back tick,
and you can open up more
than one editor or
more than one terminal, right?
Useful if you need to spin up, an express
server and a Vite or Webpack for the UI.
You can do that in two separate ones.
We will find a much better ways
to do that in a little bit.
But for now, that will do the trick or
a lot of times,
the more common use case is I've
got the development server running,
and, wait,
I need to NPM install something, right?
And so I will have another one.
The other option, again,
if we hover over here,
is we could also split a terminal as well,
right?
And so you can have two split.
And so if you had two processes, again,
you The Express server for the API and
the web pack, or V server for the UI.
You could have those going so
you can see both of them email
at you at various points and
stuff along those lines.
Yeah, those are the major things
that I think are important in
the terminal itself.
Like I said, if you need to use
different shells and profiles and
stuff along those lines.
That is a thing available to you.
But if you need that,
you already know you need that.
And if you're like, do I need that?
The answer is no.
Cool, I'm just trying to think, if there's
anything we got into splitting terminals.
If for some reason, when we get into
settings, you can change the font for
the terminal versus
the rest of the editor.
If you're gonna ask me why, I don't
have an answer for you, maybe font size.
But if you wanted totally different fonts,
that's a choice as well.
But like I said, there are notes for a lot
of the other things you might want to do
as well as that keyboard shortcut that
I showed earlier that I left in there.
It was there for us, so on and so forth.
But some extra notes there.
But the terminals there, you can have
more than one, you can split it,
you can navigate across them,
so on and so forth, right?
>> Steve Kinney: So we start with focus
terminal, you can also focus the next
terminal group which is the same command
to this for editor as well, right?
Which is one of the ones
I never think about,
cuz this is I think the same as it
is in Chrome from moving across tab.
So It's like one of those ones that I've
never actually had to say out loud too
many times, but you can hit and on a Mac
it is command shift square bracket.
But again, when you forget,
just type it and again,
you don't even need to be perfect, right?
Like, this is finding everything with
the word focus and terminal in it.
And again,
you can see the keyboard shortcut.
You can change them if you're
coming from some other editor or
whatever that does it differently.
Everything is configurable.
Again, the goal of this workshop is I will
show you the hooks in which you can build
your own lightsaber and customize things
to your preferences, so on and so forth.
And again,
there are stuff like settings sync.
There's the ability everything is JSON, so
you can port this stuff around with you.
I did with my bash profile and
VIM configuration for
five years before I realized that I
don't have time for that anymore.
>> Speaker 2: Someone in the chat also
mentions that the latest version of
VS code adds IntelliSense, the terminal.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, I also have
that from the shell too, that's cool.
I think you can also,
if you have Copilot installed,
you can also use Github Copilot.
I've never done this before,
we're gonna do it together.
>> Steve Kinney: Hey, look, it gave
me a grep command with a single word.
So you can also learn better bash or
ZHS or
any shell command by roughly
guessing what it ought to have been.
Look at it before you [INAUDIBLE]
your entire computer please.
I will not be held responsible for
any dumb thing that you do.
When we get into any of multi-cursor,
find and replace, or
particularly any of the quote unquote
AI stuff, Git is your friend.
If you do anything in bulk without
committing first, it will be a learning
experience that I have had too many times,
because I don't ever learn.
But yeah, so that is an option there
as well, which is pretty cool.